\section*{8. Applications of Knowledge Graph Embedding}
Knowledge Graph Embedding (KGE) has emerged as a transformative paradigm, enabling the representation of complex, interconnected information in a low-dimensional vector space. This capability unlocks diverse practical utilities and real-world impacts across a multitude of domains, by effectively capturing the semantic relationships and structural properties inherent in knowledge graphs (KGs). KGE models address fundamental challenges such as data sparsity, cold-start problems, and the need for explainable AI, thereby enhancing the performance and interpretability of intelligent systems. From integrating disparate knowledge sources through entity alignment to powering sophisticated recommendation engines, facilitating intelligent question answering, accelerating knowledge discovery in critical fields like biomedicine, and providing novel insights in specialized areas such as patent analysis, KGE techniques have become indispensable. This section provides a focused review of these diverse applications, showcasing how KGE models are adapted and specialized to meet the unique demands of each domain, reflecting a continuous evolution towards more robust, context-aware, and impactful AI solutions.

\subsection*{KGE for Entity Alignment}
Entity alignment (EA) is a critical task for integrating heterogeneous knowledge graphs, aiming to identify entities that refer to the same real-world object across different KGs. KGE techniques are particularly well-suited for this, as they project entities and relations into a shared embedding space, allowing for similarity-based matching. The field has evolved from basic embedding comparisons to sophisticated methods that address data scarcity, leverage richer semantic contexts, and enhance robustness.

Early approaches often struggled with the scarcity of labeled alignment data, a common real-world limitation. To overcome this, \cite{sun2018} proposed BootEA, a bootstrapping approach that iteratively labels likely entity alignments to expand training data, coupled with an alignment editing method to mitigate error accumulation. Similarly, \cite{pei2019} introduced SEA, a semi-supervised method that enhances KGE by incorporating awareness of entity degree difference through adversarial training, making embeddings more robust to entity frequency variations. Beyond structural information, richer semantic cues have been integrated. \cite{zhang2019} developed a multi-view KGE framework for EA, unifying entity names, relations, and attributes to learn more comprehensive embeddings. Advancing this, \cite{xiang2021} presented OntoEA, which explicitly leverages ontological (schema) information, such as class hierarchies and disjointness constraints, to jointly embed KGs and their associated ontologies, leading to more accurate and semantically informed alignments. The proliferation of these diverse methods necessitated systematic evaluation; \cite{fanourakis2022} conducted an experimental review, providing a meta-level analysis of KGE methods for EA, while \cite{zhu2024} offered a comprehensive survey, proposing a new three-module framework to categorize and analyze the latest EA models, including unimodal and multimodal approaches. These reviews highlight the field's maturity and the continuous drive to integrate more information sources and robust learning paradigms for effective KG integration.

\subsection*{KGE for Recommendation Systems}
Recommendation systems are a cornerstone of modern digital platforms, yet they frequently grapple with data sparsity and cold-start problems. KGE offers a powerful solution by enriching item and user representations with structured knowledge, thereby enabling more accurate, diverse, and explainable recommendations. The application of KGE in this domain has seen a significant progression from basic relational modeling to sophisticated contextual and cross-domain solutions.

An early contribution, RKGE \cite{sun2018}, demonstrated the effectiveness of automatically learning semantic representations of both entities and paths within KGs to characterize user preferences. It employed a recurrent network to model path semantics and a pooling operator to discriminate the saliency of different paths, thereby providing meaningful explanations for recommendations. Building on the demand for transparency, \cite{yang2023} introduced CKGE (Contextualized Knowledge Graph Embedding) for explainable talent training course recommendation. CKGE innovatively integrates "motivation-aware information" by constructing a meta-graph for each talent-course pair, capturing local and high-order connections. It then employs a KG-based Transformer with relational attention and structural encoding, along with local path mask prediction, to provide explicit, context-driven explanations. This represents a significant leap towards truly interpretable recommendations. Furthermore, as users interact across diverse platforms, the challenge of cross-domain recommendation has emerged. \cite{liu2023} addressed this with CKGCE (Cross-Domain Knowledge Graph Chiasmal Embedding), a novel approach for multi-domain item-item recommendation. CKGCE introduces a "binding rule" to facilitate both homo-domain and hetero-domain embedding, effectively tackling the cross-domain cold start problem by enabling efficient interaction between items from disparate domains. This evolution showcases KGE's capacity to not only enhance accuracy and explainability within a single domain but also to bridge knowledge across multiple domains, reflecting the increasing complexity of real-world recommendation scenarios.

\subsection*{KGE for Question Answering (KGQA)}
Knowledge Graph Question Answering (KGQA) systems aim to answer natural language questions by querying structured knowledge graphs. KGE plays a pivotal role in this domain by bridging the semantic gap between natural language and the symbolic representations within KGs. By embedding entities and relations into a continuous vector space, KGE facilitates the matching of question components to relevant KG elements, enabling more flexible and robust query understanding and answer retrieval.

The general utility of KGE in KGQA was articulated by \cite{huang2019}, which explored how embedding-based approaches can enhance the process of interpreting natural language questions and mapping them to executable queries over a KG. These methods typically involve embedding the question, or its key entities and relations, into the same space as the KG, allowing for similarity-based retrieval of relevant facts or paths. A notable example of KGE's application in a specialized domain is the "Marie and BERT" system by \cite{zhou2023} for chemistry-related question answering. This system demonstrates a powerful hybrid approach, combining the semantic understanding capabilities of large language models (specifically BERT) with the structured reasoning power of KGE. By leveraging KGE, Marie and BERT can effectively navigate the complex chemical knowledge graph, identify relevant entities and relations from the question, and retrieve precise answers, showcasing how KGE can be integrated with advanced natural language processing techniques to achieve high performance in domain-specific KGQA. The challenge in KGQA often lies in handling the ambiguity of natural language, the complexity of multi-hop reasoning, and the dynamic nature of KGs; KGE provides a robust foundation for addressing these by enabling semantic matching and facilitating reasoning over implicit connections.

\subsection*{KGE in Biomedical and Healthcare Domains}
The biomedical and healthcare domains are rich in complex, heterogeneous data, making Knowledge Graphs invaluable for organizing and reasoning over vast amounts of information, from drug-target interactions to disease pathways and patient records. KGE models are particularly impactful here, enabling knowledge discovery, drug repurposing, and personalized medicine by uncovering hidden relationships and making predictions from these intricate KGs.

The broad applicability of KGE models in biological contexts was highlighted by \cite{mohamed2020}, which surveyed various biological applications, emphasizing their utility in tasks such as protein-protein interaction prediction, drug discovery, and disease gene prioritization. A key challenge in healthcare is integrating diverse data modalities. \cite{zhu2022} addressed this with multimodal reasoning based on KGE for specific diseases, demonstrating how KGE can fuse information from different sources (e.g., clinical notes, genomic data, medical images) to build comprehensive disease-specific KGs, thereby enhancing diagnostic and prognostic capabilities. Advancing this, \cite{yang2025} introduced SEConv (Semantic Enhanced Knowledge Graph Embedding Model), specifically designed for healthcare prediction. SEConv leverages AI-generated content (AIGC) for semantic enhancement within medical KGs, combining a resource-efficient self-attention mechanism with a multilayer CNN to capture deeper structural features, illustrating the integration of cutting-edge AI for domain-specific semantic enrichment. Furthermore, KGE has proven crucial for urgent applications like drug repurposing. \cite{islam2023} utilized ensemble KGE for molecular-evaluated and explainable drug repurposing for COVID-19. This work not only identified potential drug candidates but also provided explainable insights into the underlying molecular mechanisms, demonstrating KGE's critical role in accelerating scientific discovery and providing transparent, actionable intelligence in high-stakes healthcare scenarios.

\subsection*{KGE in Other Specialized Domains}
Beyond the more common applications, Knowledge Graph Embedding demonstrates remarkable versatility, extending its utility to a variety of specialized domains where structured knowledge can yield significant insights. These applications often involve complex, domain-specific data that benefits greatly from the semantic and structural modeling capabilities of KGE.

One such specialized area is patent analysis, where KGE can unlock valuable insights into technological landscapes and innovation trends. \cite{li2022} explored embedding knowledge graphs of patent metadata to measure "knowledge proximity." By representing patents, technologies, and companies in a shared embedding space, KGE can quantify the relatedness between different knowledge elements, enabling tasks such as identifying emerging technologies, assessing competitive landscapes, and informing R\&D strategies. This application showcases KGE's power in transforming unstructured or semi-structured textual data (patent descriptions) into actionable intelligence. While previously mentioned, the application of KGE in drug repurposing, as demonstrated by \cite{islam2023} for COVID-19, also falls into this category of specialized scientific domains. Here, KGE models are trained on vast biomedical knowledge graphs to identify novel therapeutic uses for existing drugs, leveraging the intricate network of drug-target, disease-gene, and protein-protein interactions. This highlights KGE's ability to facilitate knowledge discovery and accelerate research in complex scientific fields. The adaptability of KGE to diverse data structures and domain-specific semantics underscores its potential to provide valuable insights across a broad spectrum of niche applications, driving innovation and informed decision-making in previously under-analyzed areas.

\subsubsection*{Section Taxonomies Summaries and Development Directions}
The provided sequence of papers illustrates a focused yet evolving trajectory within the field of Knowledge Graph Embedding for Recommender Systems. Both papers, published in 2023, reflect contemporary challenges and advanced solutions, showcasing how the field is simultaneously deepening its methodological sophistication and broadening its application scope.

The development path within KGE applications, particularly for recommender systems, demonstrates a clear progression from foundational utility to advanced contextualization and cross-domain integration. Early works, like RKGE \cite{sun2018}, established the value of KGE in addressing data sparsity and providing basic explanations through path semantics. This foundational understanding paved the way for more sophisticated models.

The 2023 papers exemplify a dual-pronged evolution:
\begin{itemize}
    \item \textbf{Deepening Context and Explainability within a Domain:} \cite{yang2023} (CKGE) represents a significant advancement in making recommendations more intelligent and transparent within a specific context, such as talent training. It moves beyond simple path-based explanations by introducing meta-graphs and a KG-based Transformer to capture "motivation-aware" contextual information and provide explicit explainability through local path mask prediction. This highlights a maturation of the field, where KGE is not just about accuracy but also about delivering trustworthy and interpretable recommendations in sensitive applications.
    \item \textbf{Expanding to Cross-Domain Challenges:} Concurrently, \cite{liu2023} (CKGCE) tackles the critical real-world problem of multi-domain item-item recommendation. While CKGE focuses on *how* to make better, more explainable recommendations *within* a domain, CKGCE addresses *where* these recommendations can be applied – specifically, across multiple, distinct domains. Its "chiasmal embedding" and "binding rule" are innovative solutions to bridge domain gaps and address the cross-domain cold start problem, extending the utility of KGE to more complex, integrated recommendation scenarios.
\end{itemize}
Collectively, these papers underscore the enduring power of knowledge graphs as a backbone for intelligent systems. The research direction is simultaneously focused on enhancing the quality and transparency of recommendations (CKGE) and extending their reach and integration across complex real-world scenarios (CKGCE). The synchronicity of their publication year emphasizes that these are concurrent, high-priority research areas, pushing KGE applications towards greater sophistication, context-awareness, and multi-domain functionality. This trajectory indicates a continuous drive to meet new demands for explainability, robustness, and scalability in diverse application landscapes.