\section{Extrapolation, Generalization, and Unseen Data Handling}
The ability of Knowledge Graph Embedding (KGE) models to extrapolate and generalize to unseen data is paramount for their utility in real-world, dynamic applications. This encompasses handling novel entities, relations, or facts that were not present during training, a critical requirement for tasks like scientific discovery, materials design, and evolving knowledge bases. Traditional KGE models often struggle with such emergent knowledge, necessitating frameworks that provide a semantic understanding of how models achieve extrapolation, advanced meta-learning techniques for dynamic settings, and robust architectural designs. This section delves into these crucial aspects, exploring the evolution from foundational geometric models to sophisticated Graph Neural Network (GNN)-based and multimodal AI systems, aligning with the "Taxonomy of Development Direction: KGE Extrapolation, Temporal Dynamics, and GNN Architectures" and the "Method Groups for the Survey". The progression highlights a shift from merely predicting missing links to understanding the underlying mechanisms of generalization and designing models that can actively discover novel insights.

\subsection{Understanding Extrapolation through Semantic Evidences}
A fundamental challenge in KGE has been to understand *why* models extrapolate to unseen data, rather than just *how* they measure plausibility. This semantic understanding is crucial for designing more robust and generalizable models. \cite{li2021} directly addresses this by proposing a framework centered on "Semantic Evidences" (SEs). They identify three levels of observable semantic relatedness—relation, entity, and triple—within the training set that provide critical information for predicting unseen triples. For instance, relation-level SE quantifies co-occurrence frequency, entity-level SE measures path connections, and triple-level SE assesses similarity between candidate tails and known tails for a given head-relation pair. To leverage these insights, \cite{li2021} introduced \textbf{SE-GNN}, a GNN-based model that explicitly models each level of SE through corresponding neighbor patterns and multi-layer aggregation, leading to more extrapolative knowledge representations. This work, falling under the "Graph Neural Network-based Models with Focus on Extrapolation and Interpretability" group, provides a foundational semantic view for KGE extrapolation.

The practical utility of this semantic evidence approach is further demonstrated by \cite{li2025} with \textbf{GNN-FTuckER}. This model, designed for a specialized domain (identifying suitable populations for tea varieties), integrates the \textbf{SE-GNN structural encoder} with an improved TuckER decoder. By explicitly modeling global graph structure and semantic evidences through the SE-GNN component, GNN-FTuckER enhances its ability to capture rich semantic information and complex non-linear relationships, thereby improving link prediction performance in a real-world application. This illustrates how the semantic evidence framework can be effectively deployed and refined for robust extrapolation in domain-specific knowledge graphs.

Earlier works also contributed to improving generalization by enhancing model capacity to capture complex patterns, albeit without explicitly framing it as "semantic evidence." For example, \cite{wang2014} introduced \textbf{TransH}, a "Translational Model and Geometric Extension," which models relations as hyperplanes with translation operations. This allowed entities to have different representations when involved in complex mapping properties (one-to-many, many-to-one), significantly improving its ability to generalize to such relations compared to simpler translational models. Similarly, \cite{ebisu2017} proposed \textbf{TorusE}, another "Translational Model and Geometric Extension," which embeds entities and relations on a compact Lie group (a torus). This inherent compactness naturally regularizes embeddings, avoiding the warping effects of explicit regularization in Euclidean space and thereby enhancing the model's capacity to learn more accurate and generalizable representations. While \cite{li2021} provides an explicit semantic framework, TransH and TorusE represent architectural advancements that implicitly improve the model's ability to capture and extrapolate complex patterns by providing more suitable embedding spaces or relation modeling mechanisms. The progression shows a move from implicit architectural improvements to explicit semantic understanding as a design principle for extrapolation.

\subsection{Meta-Learning for Generalization to Unseen Entities and Relations}
Handling emergent knowledge, including entirely novel entities and relations, in dynamic knowledge graphs (TKGs) is a significant challenge that meta-learning techniques are well-suited to address. This falls under the "Temporal and Continual Knowledge Graph Embedding" and "Graph Neural Network-based Models with Focus on Extrapolation and Interpretability" groups, as meta-learning often leverages GNNs for dynamic settings. \cite{chen2023} directly tackles this problem by proposing a **meta-learning based knowledge extrapolation** approach for Temporal Knowledge Graphs (TKGs) with unseen entities and relations. Their method meta-trains a GNN framework to capture relative position and temporal sequence patterns, enabling the transfer of learned patterns to embed and reason about novel components. This allows the model to quickly adapt to new knowledge by learning how to learn, rather than retraining from scratch.

Complementing meta-learning, continual learning strategies are crucial for incrementally adapting to emergent knowledge. \cite{liu2024} introduced \textbf{IncDE (Incremental Distillation)}, a method for Continual KGE that explicitly leverages graph structure awareness. IncDE employs a hierarchical strategy to optimize the learning order of new triples based on their structural features and devises a novel incremental distillation mechanism. This mechanism facilitates the seamless transfer of entity representations from previous learning layers to new ones, promoting old knowledge preservation while efficiently integrating emergent facts. This approach, while not strictly meta-learning, addresses the same core problem of adapting to dynamic knowledge by balancing plasticity and stability.

Furthermore, foundational temporal KGE models contribute to generalization in dynamic settings by enhancing the representation of temporal patterns, which are a form of emergent knowledge. \cite{sadeghian2021} proposed \textbf{ChronoR}, a "Temporal KGE with Rotation Transformations" model that uses a $k$-dimensional rotation transformation, parametrized by relation and time, to capture rich temporal and multi-relational interactions. This expressive transformation enables the model to generalize to unseen temporal facts by learning the underlying dynamics. Building on this, \cite{chen2022} introduced \textbf{RotateQVS}, which represents temporal information as rotations in a quaternion vector space, offering a richer mathematical structure for modeling complex temporal evolution patterns. More recently, \cite{ying2024} presented \textbf{TCompoundE}, a TKGE model that leverages compound geometric operations (translation and scaling) to capture both dynamic and static aspects of relations over time. These models, by enhancing the expressiveness of temporal transformations, inherently improve their ability to generalize to novel temporal facts and emergent patterns in dynamic KGs. Meta-learning provides a powerful paradigm for adapting to entirely new entities and relations, while continual learning and advanced temporal embedding models offer robust mechanisms for incrementally integrating and generalizing to evolving temporal facts.

\subsection{Architectural Considerations for Robust Extrapolation}
The architectural design of KGE models plays a pivotal role in enhancing their robustness and generalization capabilities, particularly when dealing with truly unseen data or aiming for novel discovery. This area spans from foundational geometric models to advanced multimodal generative AI systems. Early "Translational Models and Geometric Extensions" like \textbf{TransH} \cite{wang2014} introduced relation-specific hyperplanes, allowing entities to have distinct representations depending on the relation. This architectural innovation significantly improved the model's ability to handle complex relation mapping properties (e.g., one-to-many), thereby enhancing its generalization to diverse relational patterns. Similarly, \textbf{TorusE} \cite{ebisu2017} proposed embedding entities and relations on a compact Lie group (a torus). This non-Euclidean embedding space inherently regularizes the embeddings, preventing divergence without explicit regularization and thus leading to more robust and generalizable representations. These early architectural choices laid the groundwork for better generalization by improving the fundamental representation space and relation modeling.

More recently, "Graph Neural Network-based Models with Focus on Extrapolation and Interpretability" have emerged as powerful architectures. The \textbf{SE-GNN} model by \cite{li2021}, discussed earlier, is a prime example of an architectural design explicitly crafted for robust extrapolation. By integrating three levels of Semantic Evidences (relation, entity, triple) through tailored neighbor aggregation and multi-layer processing, SE-GNN learns more extrapolative knowledge representations. This GNN-based architecture directly addresses *how* to build models with better generalization by incorporating semantic patterns into its design.

Pushing the boundaries of robust extrapolation and generalization are advanced "Generative AI and Multimodal Reasoning for Scientific Discovery" systems. \cite{buehler2024} describes a groundbreaking framework that employs generative AI to transform scientific papers into an ontological knowledge graph. This system leverages a large language embedding model for deep node representations and uses combinatorial node similarity ranking with path sampling to link dissimilar concepts. Crucially, it integrates multimodal intelligent graph reasoning (transitive, isomorphic properties) across diverse data (graphs, images, text, numerical data), even incorporating artistic principles for novel material design. This architecture exemplifies robust extrapolation by identifying knowledge gaps, proposing never-before-seen material designs, and uncovering unprecedented interdisciplinary relationships. Similarly, \cite{ghafarollahi2024} presents a multi-agent AI model that integrates Large Language Models (LLMs) with a novel GNN for rapid retrieval of atomic-scale physical properties in alloy design. This system dynamically explores vast compositional spaces and proposes new alloy designs, demonstrating robust generalization to unseen material compositions by synergizing GNN predictions with LLM-driven reasoning. These advanced architectures represent the pinnacle of current efforts to achieve robust extrapolation, moving beyond simple link prediction to generative discovery by combining diverse AI paradigms and multimodal reasoning. The evolution of KGE architectures reflects a continuous effort to build models that are not only accurate but also capable of truly generalizing and discovering novel knowledge in complex, dynamic, and often incomplete real-world scenarios.